README.rst, before:

===========================
 Introduction to PyFiberAmp
===========================

PyFiberAmp is a rate equation simulation library for rare-earth-doped fiber amplifiers and fiber lasers partly based on
the Giles model [1]_.

With PyFiberAmp you can simulate:

- Both core-pumped and double-clad fiber amplifiers
- Simple continuous-wave, gain-switched and Q-switched fiber lasers
- Unlimited number of pump, signal and ASE channels
- Limited number of Raman channels
- Arbitrarily time-dependent beams from continuous-wave to nanosecond pulses
- Radially varying dopant concentration and excitation
- Automatically calculated Bessel, Gaussian and top-hat mode shapes

Additional benefits include:

- Built-in plotting commands: easy visualization of results
- Python interface: convenient for post-processing the data
- Dedicated C++ PDE solver: fast time-dynamic simulations
- Open source: see what's happening under the hood
- Free of charge: install on as many computers as you like

Documentation is still in progress and available on `Read the Docs <https://pyfiberamp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_.
For practical examples, see the examples folder above. If you have a question, comment or feature request, please open a new issue on
GitHub or contact me at pyfiberamp@gmail.com. If you find PyFiberAmp useful in your own project, I would also very much
like to hear about it.

A visual example
=================
Few-nanosecond pulses propagating in an Yb-doped fiber amplifier are distorted because of gain saturation.
The Gaussian pulse with its exponential leading edge retains its shape better than the square or saw-tooth
pulses.

.. image:: docs/images/pulses.gif
    :align: center


Download
=========
PyFiberAmp is not yet on PyPI. You can either download the code as a zip-file or clone the repository with
::

    git clone git://github.com/Jomiri/pyfiberamp.git

and then install the library by executing
::

    python setup.py install

in the (unzipped) download directory.

System requirements
===================
PyFiberAmp depends on the standard scientific Python packages: Numpy, SciPy and Matplotlib and has been
tested on Windows 7 and Windows 10. It should work on other operating systems as well
provided that Python and the required packages are installed. The `Anaconda distribution
<https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_ contains everything you'll need out of the box.

Even though all of PyFiberAmp's functionality is available in interpreted Python code, the use of the separate
C++ extension is recommended for computationally intensive time-dynamic simulations.
The system requirements of the C++ extension are stricter: Windows 7 or 10, Python 3.6 and a fairly modern
CPU with AVX2 instruction support. If the Python-based solver is too slow for you but you cannot satisfy the
requirements, open a new issue or send me a message, and I'll try to provide you with a compatible version of the C++
extension.

Example
========
The simple example below demonstrates a core-pumped Yb-doped fiber amplifier. All units are in SI.
::

    from pyfiberamp.steady_state import SteadyStateSimulation
    from pyfiberamp.fibers import YbDopedFiber

    yb_number_density = 2e25  # m^-3
    core_radius = 3e-6  # m
    length = 2.5  # m
    core_na = 0.12

    fiber = YbDopedFiber(length=length,
                        core_radius=core_radius,
                        ion_number_density=yb_number_density,
                        background_loss=0,
                        core_na=core_na)
    simulation = SteadyStateSimulation()
    simulation.fiber = fiber
    simulation.add_cw_signal(wl=1035e-9, power=2e-3)
    simulation.add_forward_pump(wl=976e-9, power=300e-3)
    simulation.add_ase(wl_start=1000e-9, wl_end=1080e-9, n_bins=80)

    result = simulation.run(tol=1e-5)
    result.plot_amplifier_result()

The script calculates and plots the power evolution in the amplifier and the amplified spontaneous emission (ASE)
spectra. The co-propagating pump is absorbed in the first ~1.2 m of the fiber while the signal experiences gain.
When the pump has been depleted, the signal starts to be reabsorbed. ASE is stronger against the pumping direction.

.. image:: docs/images/readme_power_evolution.png
    :align: center
    :width: 769px
    :height: 543px

.. image:: docs/images/readme_ase_spectra.png
    :align: center
    :width: 769px
    :height: 543px

For more usage examples, please see the Jupyter notebooks in the examples folder. More examples will be added in the
future.

Fiber data
==========
PyFiberAmp comes with spectroscopic data (effective absorption and emission cross sections) for Yb-doped germanosilicate
fibers [3]_ and supports importing spectra for other dopants and glass compositions.

Theory basics
==============
For a quick review on the theory, see the `pyfiberamp theory.pdf
<https://github.com/Jomiri/pyfiberamp/blob/master/pyfiberamp%20theory.pdf>`_ file. Theory on the time-dynamic
simulations is not yet included. A more complete description can be found in the references.

License
========
PyFiberAmp is licensed under the MIT license. The C++ extension depends on the `pybind11
<https://github.com/pybind/pybind11>`_  and `Armadillo <http://arma.sourceforge.net/>`_ projects. See the license file
for their respective licenses.

References
===========
.. [1] C.R. Giles and E. Desurvire, "Modeling erbium-doped fiber amplifiers," in Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 271-283, Feb 1991. doi: 10.1109/50.65886
.. [2] R.G. Smith, "Optical Power Handling Capacity of Low Loss Optical Fibers as Determined by Stimulated Raman and Brillouin Scattering," Appl. Opt. 11, 2489-2494 (1972)
.. [3] R. Paschotta, J. Nilsson, A. C. Tropper and D. C. Hanna, "Ytterbium-doped fiber amplifiers," in IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1049-1056, Jul 1997. doi: 10.1109/3.594865

Commit message:

Added new backends to README

README.rst, after:

===========================
 Introduction to PyFiberAmp
===========================

PyFiberAmp is a rate equation simulation library for rare-earth-doped fiber amplifiers and fiber lasers partly based on
the Giles model [1]_.

With PyFiberAmp you can simulate:

- Both core-pumped and double-clad fiber amplifiers
- Simple continuous-wave, gain-switched and Q-switched fiber lasers
- Unlimited number of pump, signal and ASE channels
- Limited number of Raman channels
- Arbitrarily time-dependent beams from continuous-wave to nanosecond pulses
- Radially varying dopant concentration and excitation
- Automatically calculated Bessel, Gaussian and top-hat mode shapes

Additional benefits include:

- Built-in plotting commands: easy visualization of results
- Python interface: convenient for post-processing the data
- C++, Numba and Pythran backends: fast time-dynamic simulations
- Open source: see what's happening under the hood
- Free of charge: install on as many computers as you like

Documentation is still in progress and available on `Read the Docs <https://pyfiberamp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_.
For practical examples, see the examples folder above. If you have a question, comment or feature request, please open a new issue on
GitHub or contact me at pyfiberamp@gmail.com. If you find PyFiberAmp useful in your own project, I would also very much
like to hear about it.

A visual example
=================
Few-nanosecond pulses propagating in an Yb-doped fiber amplifier are distorted because of gain saturation.
The Gaussian pulse with its exponential leading edge retains its shape better than the square or saw-tooth
pulses.

.. image:: docs/images/pulses.gif
    :align: center


Download
=========
PyFiberAmp is not yet on PyPI. You can either download the code as a zip-file or clone the repository with
::

    git clone git://github.com/Jomiri/pyfiberamp.git

and then install the library by executing
::

    python setup.py install

in the (unzipped) download directory.

System requirements
===================
PyFiberAmp depends on the standard scientific Python packages: Numpy, SciPy and Matplotlib and has been
tested on Windows 7 and Windows 10. It should work on other operating systems as well
provided that Python and the required packages are installed. The `Anaconda distribution
<https://www.anaconda.com/download/>`_ contains everything you'll need out of the box.

Even though all of PyFiberAmp's functionality is available in interpreted Python code, the use of one of the compiled
backends (C++, Numba or Pythran) is recommended for computationally intensive time-dynamic simulations.
The hand-written C++ extension is fastest but has also the strictest system requirements: Windows 7 or 10, Python 3.6 and a fairly modern
CPU with AVX2 instruction support. The Pythran backend probably only works on Linux and requires that `pythran <https://pythran.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
is installed before installing PyFiberAmp. The Numba backend should work on all operating systems provided that `Numba <https://numba.pydata.org/>`_
is available. Please open a new issue if you encounter problems with a backend that should work but does not.

Example
========
The simple example below demonstrates a core-pumped Yb-doped fiber amplifier. All units are in SI.
::

    from pyfiberamp.steady_state import SteadyStateSimulation
    from pyfiberamp.fibers import YbDopedFiber

    yb_number_density = 2e25  # m^-3
    core_radius = 3e-6  # m
    length = 2.5  # m
    core_na = 0.12

    fiber = YbDopedFiber(length=length,
                        core_radius=core_radius,
                        ion_number_density=yb_number_density,
                        background_loss=0,
                        core_na=core_na)
    simulation = SteadyStateSimulation()
    simulation.fiber = fiber
    simulation.add_cw_signal(wl=1035e-9, power=2e-3)
    simulation.add_forward_pump(wl=976e-9, power=300e-3)
    simulation.add_ase(wl_start=1000e-9, wl_end=1080e-9, n_bins=80)

    result = simulation.run(tol=1e-5)
    result.plot_amplifier_result()

The script calculates and plots the power evolution in the amplifier and the amplified spontaneous emission (ASE)
spectra. The co-propagating pump is absorbed in the first ~1.2 m of the fiber while the signal experiences gain.
When the pump has been depleted, the signal starts to be reabsorbed. ASE is stronger against the pumping direction.

.. image:: docs/images/readme_power_evolution.png
    :align: center
    :width: 769px
    :height: 543px

.. image:: docs/images/readme_ase_spectra.png
    :align: center
    :width: 769px
    :height: 543px

For more usage examples, please see the Jupyter notebooks in the examples folder. More examples will be added in the
future.

Fiber data
==========
PyFiberAmp comes with spectroscopic data (effective absorption and emission cross sections) for Yb-doped germanosilicate
fibers [3]_ and supports importing spectra for other dopants and glass compositions.

Theory basics
==============
For a quick review on the theory, see the `pyfiberamp theory.pdf
<https://github.com/Jomiri/pyfiberamp/blob/master/pyfiberamp%20theory.pdf>`_ file. Theory on the time-dynamic
simulations is not yet included. A more complete description can be found in the references.

License
========
PyFiberAmp is licensed under the MIT license. The C++ extension depends on the `pybind11
<https://github.com/pybind/pybind11>`_  and `Armadillo <http://arma.sourceforge.net/>`_ projects. See the license file
for their respective licenses.

References
===========
.. [1] C.R. Giles and E. Desurvire, "Modeling erbium-doped fiber amplifiers," in Journal of Lightwave Technology, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 271-283, Feb 1991. doi: 10.1109/50.65886
.. [2] R.G. Smith, "Optical Power Handling Capacity of Low Loss Optical Fibers as Determined by Stimulated Raman and Brillouin Scattering," Appl. Opt. 11, 2489-2494 (1972)
.. [3] R. Paschotta, J. Nilsson, A. C. Tropper and D. C. Hanna, "Ytterbium-doped fiber amplifiers," in IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1049-1056, Jul 1997. doi: 10.1109/3.594865
